---
layout: post
title: Syntax
---

Rust is a strongly and statically typed programming language.

## Variable Bindings

Variable bindings can be created by using the `let` keyword.

	fn main() {
		let pi = 3.14;
	}

## Types

Rust has type inference, which means you don't have to explicitly tell the compiler the type of a variable. Of course, you are also free to do so.

```rust
fn main() {
     let num : f64 = 2.5;
}
```

Rust has many different numeric types:

	i8 - Signed 8 bit integer
	i16
	i32
	i64
	u8 - Unsigned 8 bit integer
	u16
	u32
	u64
	isize - Pointer size of Signed Integer
	usize - Pointer size of Unsigned Integer
	f32 - 32 bit floating point
	f64

Rust also has a boolean type 'bool',char type 'char', and String type str.

## Arrays
Rust supports arrays and are created using `[]`. Their size is computed at compile time. Arrays have a type signiture of `[objectType;size]`

	let people = ["Ann", "Jim", "Bob", "Katie"];

people would have a type signature of '[&str, 4]'

Slices are a reference of another data structure. This is very important in Rust because owning variables and borrowing are a big part of the language. A slice is a pointer to the beginning of the data and knows the length of the data, so that it can be referenced even if the object is not owned.

Slices are created with the `&` and `[]` operators. Say we have the array of people above, we can get a slice of those people

	let some_people = &people[2 .. 4];

Now, `some_people` is a slice of people and points to the elements "Bob" and "Katie".

## Functions

Functions in Rust are very similar to other languages. A simple adder function would look like this

	fn add(a: i32, b:i32) -> i32 { 
		a + b 
	}

The arguments of this function are `a` and `b`, both of type i32. The return value of a function is denoted by the -> operator, in this case, also an i32.
